Skip to main content
        
            
                Please enable JavaScript – we use it to enhance behaviour for Guardian Members.
                Click here for instructions to do so in your browser.
            
        
        
            You are using an outdated browser.
            Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience.
        
        
            
                
                    
                        
                        



        
            
                
                


    


                
            
            
                
                    Sign in
                    
                
            
        
        
        
            
                    Comment activity
                
                    Edit profile
                
                    Email preferences
                
                    Change password
                
                    Sign out
                
        
    
            
                
                    
                    


    


                    
                
                
                    Europe (€)
                
            
            
                
                        
                            United Kingdom (£)
                        
                    
                        
                            Europe (€)
                        
                    
                        
                            United States (US$)
                        
                    
                        
                            Australia (AU$)
                        
                    
            
        
        
            
            


    


            
            
                the guardian
            
        
    

                        
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                
                                    
                                        
                                            
                                                
                                                    image/svg+xml
                                                    
                                                    
                                                
                                            
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                        
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
                


    
        
    



    
        
                
                    


    


                    Home
                
            
            
    


            

            
                
    

        

        
            
                
                    
                        Support the Guardian’s 
                        quality journalism 
                        and independent voice
                    

                    
                        Make a one-off 
                        contribution today
                    
                

                
                    
                        
                        Reader contributions support the Guardian’s editorial operations.
                        All profit is reinvested to safeguard the quality of our journalism.
                    

                    
                        
                        The Guardian is an independent voice, free from commercial or political interference.
                        No one can tell us to censor, edit or drop a story.
                    
                
            

            
        
        
        

    
        
    

    
        
            
                
                    The ultimate owner of the Guardian is The Scott Trust Limited, whose role it is to secure the editorial and financial independence of the Guardian in perpetuity. Reader contributions support the Guardian’s journalism.
                

                
                    Please note that your support of the Guardian’s journalism does not constitute a charitable donation, as such your contribution is not eligible for Gift Aid in the UK nor a tax-deduction elsewhere.
                

                
                    Please note that the Guardian is not a charity, will not use your support for charitable
                    programs, and your support of the Guardian’s journalism does not constitute a
                    charitable donation. As such your contribution is not eligible to be treated as a
                    charitable deduction for federal or state taxes in the United States or elsewhere.
                

                
                    If you have any questions about contributing to the Guardian, please 
                    contact us here.
                
            
        
    

            
        

        

            
                
                    
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                


    


                                
                            
                            
                                back to top
                            
                        
                    
                
            

            
                
                    
                    
                            © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
                        All rights reserved.