Skip to main content
        
        
            
                Please enable JavaScript – we use it to enhance behaviour for Guardian Members.
                Click here for instructions to do so in your browser.
            
        
        
            You are using an outdated browser.
            Please upgrade your browser to improve your experience.
        
        
            

 


    
        
            
                



        
            
                
                    


    


                
            
            
                
                    Sign in
                    
                
            
        
        
        
            
                    Comment activity
                
                    Edit profile
                
                    Email preferences
                
                    Change password
                
                    Sign out
                
        
    
            
                
                    
                    


    


                    
                
                
                    Europe (€)
                
            
            
                
                            United Kingdom (£)
                        
                            Europe (€)
                        
                            United States (US$)
                        
                            Canada (CA$)
                        
                            Australia (AU$)
                        
                            International (US$)
                        
            
        
        
            
                


    


            
            
                The Guardian
            
        
    

            
            
            
	            
                    The Guardian Members
                    



    
    


                
            
        
    
    



    
        
    



    
        
                    
                        


    


                        Home
                    
                
                    Become a supporter
                
                    Events
                
                        Archive
                    
                    Masterclasses
                
                    Patrons
                
                    Feedback
                
                
                    Members' Area
                
            
    








    


 

            
                
                    

    

        

    
    
    




        
        


    
	    


    
        
            Become aGuardian Supporter

            Be part of the Guardian's future, by helping to secure it

            
            	

    
        
            
                Become a Supporter 
                for €4.99 a month
            

            
                
                
                    
                
                
            
        
    

            
        
    
        
    


	    


    
            
                
                    We want to make the world a better, fairer place. We want to keep the powerful honest. And we believe that doing so means keeping society informed by producing quality, independent journalism, which discovers and tells readers the truth.
                
                
                    It’s essential for the functioning of democracy. And our unique ownership structure means no one can tell us to censor or drop a story.
                
            

            


    
        
            


    
    
        
            
                
            
            
                
                    


    


                    Play video
                
            
        
    


        
    
    Katharine Viner, editor-in-chief, explains the Guardian's unique ownership model



            
                
                    But it’s difficult and expensive work. While more people are reading the Guardian than ever before, far fewer are paying for it. And advertising revenues across the media are falling fast.
                
                
                    So if you read us, if you like us, if you value our perspective – then become a Supporter and help make our future more secure.
                
            
        


    
    


	
		

    
        
            
                Become a Supporter 
                for €4.99 a month
            

            
                
                
                    
                
                
            
        
    

	






        
        


    


    
        Supporters get closerto the Guardian
    

    
        
            
                


    
    
        
            
                
            
            
                
                    


    


                    Play video
                
            
        
    


            
        
    

    
            
                

                    
                        As a Guardian Supporter, you’ll enjoy a number of benefits, including:
                    

                    
                            Exclusive emails from Guardian journalists
                        
                            An ad-free experience on our mobile app
                        
                            Joining the global Guardian Members community
                        
                            A welcome gift
                        

                    
                        Most importantly of all, you’ll appreciate every word that you read, in the knowledge that you’ve helped to bring it to the page.
                    
                
            
        





    


	
		

    
        
            
                Become a Supporter 
                for €4.99 a month
            

            
                
                
                    
                
                
            
        
    

	






        

        


    


    
        Why do we needour Supporters?
    

    
        
        The Guardian newsroom during a busy afternoon
    
    
        
            
                Like many other media organisations, the Guardian is operating in an incredibly challenging financial climate. Our advertising revenues are falling fast. We have huge numbers of readers, and we are increasingly reliant upon their financial support.
            
            
                We don’t have a wealthy owner pulling the strings. No shareholders, advertisers or billionaire owners can edit our editor.
            
            
                Our owner, the Scott Trust, safeguards our editorial independence from commercial or political interference. It reinvests revenue into our journalism, as opposed to into shareholders' pockets.
            
            
                But while the Scott Trust ensures our independence, we need our Supporters, now more than ever before, to help secure our future.
            
            
                We know that not everyone is in a position to become a Supporter. But if you can, you’ll be an integral part of our mission to make the world a better, fairer place, for everyone.
            
        
    


    


	
		

    
        
            
                Become a Supporter 
                for €4.99 a month
            

            
                
                
                    
                
                
            
        
    

	





    

                
            
        

        



    

    
        
            
            
                
                    
                        


    


                    
                
                
                    back to top
                
            
        
        
            The Guardian Members
            



    
    


        
    



    
        
            
                        Help
                    
                        Contact us
                    
                        Feedback
                    
                        Terms & conditions
                    
                        Privacy policy
                    
                        Cookie policy
                    
            
                © 2018 Guardian News and Media Limited or its affiliated companies.
                All rights reserved.