Instant Interactive Visualization with d3 + ggplot2

        

        


          
  It’s often easier to understand a chart than a table. So why is it still so hard to make a simple data graphic, and why am I still bombarded by mind-numbing reams of raw numbers?

  (Yeah, I love ggplot2 to death. But sometimes I want a little more interaction, and sometimes all I want is to drag-and-drop and be done.)

  So I’ve been experimenting with a small, ggplot2-inspired d3 app.

  Simply drop a file, and bam! Instant scatterplot:

  

  But wait – that’s only 2 dimensions. You can add some more through color, size, and groups:

  

  (Click here to play with the data yourself.)

  And you can easily switch which variables are getting plotted, and see all the information associated with each point.

  

  (Same dataset, different aesthetic assignments.)

  I’m thinking of adding more kinds of charts, support for categorical variables, more interactivity (sliders to interact with other dimensions?!), and making the UI even easier (e.g., simplify column naming). In the meantime, the code is here on Github, and tips and suggestions are welcome!
    

        

      
    

  
	      
	        
	          Edwin Chen	          
	          

	        
	        
	                      	          
	          
	            Hybrid CEO. Our customers include companies like Airbnb, Dropbox, Expedia, Pandora, and Pinterest, who use us to power their personalization platforms and run millions of human/AI tasks every month. Hit me up if you're interested!	            
	          
	          
	          Previously: math and linguistics at MIT, speech recognition at MSR, quant trading at Clarium, ads at Twitter, data science at Dropbox, stats/ML at Google.
            
            
            
              I work on AI, human computation, and data.
                        
            
            
              hello[æ]echen.me
            
            	          
	          
              Quora
              Twitter
              Github
              
              Atom / RSS
            
          

          
              Recent Posts
                Moving Beyond CTR: Better Recommendations Through Human Evaluation  
                Propensity Modeling, Causal Inference, and Discovering Drivers of Growth  
                Product Insights for Airbnb  
                Exploring LSTMs  
                Improving Twitter Search with Real-Time Human Computation  
                Edge Prediction in a Social Graph: My Solution to Facebook's User Recommendation Contest on Kaggle  
                Soda vs. Pop with Twitter  
                Infinite Mixture Models with Nonparametric Bayes and the Dirichlet Process  
                Instant Interactive Visualization with d3 + ggplot2  
                Movie Recommendations and More via MapReduce and Scalding  
                Quick Introduction to ggplot2  
                Introduction to Conditional Random Fields  
                Winning the Netflix Prize: A Summary  
                Stuff Harvard People Like  
                Information Transmission in a Social Network: Dissecting the Spread of a Quora Post  
            
          
        


        
       
        
        
	
        
                
                Proudly powered by Pelican, which takes
                great advantage of Python.