Navigation

	

		

Machine Learning Mastery
Making developers awesome at machine learning

	    
	        			

Start Here
     
Blog
     
Books
     
About
     
Contact

		
    
        
        
    
    
			Need help with machine learning? Take the FREE Crash-Course.

			    
	
	
	

	
	

		Home

	Empty Menu	
		

	

	Return to Content


      
    
	    
    
    	    
		
            
                        
            	
			
	
	
		About Jason Brownlee
		Jason Brownlee, Ph.D. is a machine learning specialist who teaches developers how to get results with modern machine learning methods via hands-on tutorials.			
	

Author Archive | Jason Brownlee



	
	A Gentle Introduction to Sparse Matrices for Machine Learning	
By Jason Brownlee on March 14, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
Matrices that contain mostly zero values are called sparse, distinct from matrices where most of the values are non-zero, called dense. Large sparse matrices are common in general and especially in applied machine learning, such as in data that contains counts, data encodings that map categories to counts, and even in whole subfields of machine […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   0	


	
	A Gentle Introduction to Broadcasting with NumPy Arrays	
By Jason Brownlee on March 12, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
Arrays with different sizes cannot be added, subtracted, or generally be used in arithmetic. A way to overcome this is to duplicate the smaller array so that it is the dimensionality and size as the larger array. This is called array broadcasting and is available in NumPy when performing array arithmetic, which can greatly reduce […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   0	


	
	10 Examples of Linear Algebra in Machine Learning	
By Jason Brownlee on March 9, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
Linear algebra is a sub-field of mathematics concerned with vectors, matrices, and linear transforms. It is a key foundation to the field of machine learning, from notations used to describe the operation of algorithms to the implementation of algorithms in code. Although linear algebra is integral to the field of machine learning, the tight relationship […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   9	


	
	No Bullshit Guide To Linear Algebra Review	
By Jason Brownlee on March 7, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
There are many books that provide an introduction to the field of linear algebra. Most are textbooks targeted at undergraduate students and are full of theoretical digressions that are barely relevant and mostly distracting to a beginner or practitioner to the field. In this post, you will discover the book “” that provides a gentle […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   2	


	
	How to Solve Linear Regression Using Linear Algebra	
By Jason Brownlee on March 5, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
Linear regression is a method for modeling the relationship between one or more independent variables and a dependent variable. It is a staple of statistics and is often considered a good introductory machine learning method. It is also a method that can be reformulated using matrix notation and solved using matrix operations. In this tutorial, […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   2	


	
	How to Calculate the Principal Component Analysis from Scratch in Python	
By Jason Brownlee on March 2, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
An important machine learning method for dimensionality reduction is called Principal Component Analysis. It is a method that uses simple matrix operations from linear algebra and statistics to calculate a projection of the original data into the same number or fewer dimensions. In this tutorial, you will discover the Principal Component Analysis machine learning method […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   8	


	
	A Gentle Introduction to Expected Value, Variance, and Covariance with NumPy	
By Jason Brownlee on February 28, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
Fundamental statistics are useful tools in applied machine learning for a better understanding your data. They are also the tools that provide the foundation for more advanced linear algebra operations and machine learning methods, such as the covariance matrix and principal component analysis respectively. As such, it is important to have a strong grip on […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   0	


	
	A Gentle Introduction to Singular-Value Decomposition for Machine Learning	
By Jason Brownlee on February 26, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
Matrix decomposition, also known as matrix factorization, involves describing a given matrix using its constituent elements. Perhaps the most known and widely used matrix decomposition method is the Singular-Value Decomposition, or SVD. All matrices have an SVD, which makes it more stable than other methods, such as the eigendecomposition. As such, it is often used […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   8	


	
	Linear Algebra Cheat Sheet for Machine Learning	
By Jason Brownlee on February 23, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
All of the Linear Algebra Operations that You Need to Use in NumPy for Machine Learning. The Python numerical computation library called NumPy provides many linear algebra functions that may be useful as a machine learning practitioner. In this tutorial, you will discover the key functions for working with vectors and matrices that you may […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   8	


	
	Top Resources for Learning Linear Algebra for Machine Learning	
By Jason Brownlee on February 21, 2018  in Linear Algebra  
	
How to Get Help with Linear Algebra for Machine Learning? Linear algebra is a field of mathematics and an important pillar of the field of machine learning. It can be a challenging topic for beginners, or for practitioners who have not looked at the topic in decades. In this post, you will discover how to […]
	
	
	
		Continue Reading   0	

1
2
…
57
Next →                    
            
                
            
Welcome to Machine Learning Mastery
Hi, I'm Jason Brownlee, Ph.D.

My goal is to make practitioners like YOU awesome at applied machine learning.
Read More

			
Need More Help? …take the next step
You can be productive very quickly by taking a systematic approach to machine learning designed for practitioners, not academics.
It is top-down and results-first
with step-by-step tutorials and projects.
No math. No theory. Nothing hidden.
It’s time to get serious.
Start Now!


		
		 		

            Popular

            

            

	            
                                
				Your First Machine Learning Project in Python Step-By-Step
		June 10, 2016
		
	
				Time Series Prediction with LSTM Recurrent Neural Networks in Python with Keras
		July 21, 2016
		
	
				Multivariate Time Series Forecasting with LSTMs in Keras
		August 14, 2017
		
	
				How to Setup a Python Environment for Machine Learning and Deep Learning with Anaconda
		March 13, 2017
		
	
				Develop Your First Neural Network in Python With Keras Step-By-Step
		May 24, 2016
		
	
				Sequence Classification with LSTM Recurrent Neural Networks in Python with Keras
		July 26, 2016
		
	
				Time Series Forecasting with the Long Short-Term Memory Network in Python
		April 7, 2017
		
	
				Regression Tutorial with the Keras Deep Learning Library in Python
		June 9, 2016
		
	
				Multi-Class Classification Tutorial with the Keras Deep Learning Library
		June 2, 2016
		
	
				How to Grid Search Hyperparameters for Deep Learning Models in Python With Keras
		August 9, 2016
		
	
                                                                
            

        

                 
    
		         

		       

    
			
	

		
		
			© 2018 Machine Learning Mastery. All Rights Reserved. 		

		
			
Privacy | 
Contact |
About