Navigation

	

		

Machine Learning Mastery
Making developers awesome at machine learning

	    
	        			

Start Here
     
Blog
     
Books
     
About
     
Contact

		
    
        
        
    
    
	    
	
	
	

	
	

		Home

	Empty Menu	
		

	

	Return to Content


       
    
	    
    
    	    

            
                                             

	
			

	
	    Master machine learning by using it on real-life applications, even if you’re starting from scratch.
Get the EXACT framework I used to cut my time working through predictive modeling problems in HALF, and STILL get better results.
Join 100,000+ students who already have a head start.
I’m Ready! Send it To Me!

trusted by:

Welcome to Machine Learning Mastery!
Hi, I’m Jason Brownlee, Ph.D., the guy behind Machine Learning Mastery.
My goal is to make YOU awesome at machine learning.
The academic approach used to teach machine learning is not for you. It’s so slow!
My approach is unconventional because it’s tailored for developers.
I teach a top-down method laser-focused on delivering results. Not research papers.

Comments From Students:



 I love your site by the way. It’s one of the few ML sources I’ve come across that explains things clearly rather than writing everything as if it were an academic paper.
Kevin Beaulieu Software Engineer

 Your site is addictive. I am not kidding. I feel like I am a kid in a candy store with so many Machine Learning links to follow from your own site.
Rizwan Mallal Chief Operating Officer, Forum Systems


 Your work has been VERY helpful for me as an aspiring Data Scientist!
David Dalisay Junior Data Scientist at Booz Allen Hamilton

 I love your blog and really appreciate you sharing your methodology. For the last few years, I’ve approached coding and machine learning from the exact opposite angle.
Michael McCarthy Cofounder








Machine Learning Mastery EBooks
Below are my top 3 most popular machine learning Ebooks.

Machine Learning Algorithms
#1 BEST SELLER
(ideal for Beginner Level)

A gentle step-by-step introduction to 10 top machine learning algorithms.
Learn More
 
Deep Learning With Python
TOP SELLER
(ideal for Advanced Level)

Develop and tune a suite deep learning models on a range of projects.
Learn More
 
Machine Learning With R
TOP SELLER
(ideal for Intermediate Level)

The most advanced machine learning platform used by professionals.
Learn More

>>Click to see the full catalog
	
	

     
            
                
            
		         

		
    
	
	

		
		
			© 2018 Machine Learning Mastery. All Rights Reserved. 		

		
			
Privacy | 
Contact |
About